Paper 01:
Title: Exploring Cross-Cultural Differences in English Hate Speech Annotations: From Dataset Construction to Analysis

Abstract
Most hate speech datasets neglect the cultural diversity within a single language, resulting in a critical shortcoming in hate speech detection. To address this, we introduce CREHate, a CRoss-cultural English Hate speech dataset. To construct CREHate, we follow a two-step procedure: 1) cultural post collection and 2) cross-cultural annotation. We sample posts from the SBIC dataset, which predominantly represents North America, and collect posts from four geographically diverse English-speaking countries (Australia, United Kingdom, Singapore, and South Africa) using culturally hateful keywords we retrieve from our survey. Annotations are collected from the four countries plus the United States to establish representative labels for each country. Our analysis highlights statistically significant disparities across countries in hate speech annotations. Only 56.2% of the posts in CREHate achieve consensus among all countries, with the highest pairwise label difference rate of 26%. Qualitative analysis shows that label disagreement occurs mostly due to different interpretations of sarcasm and the personal bias of annotators on divisive topics. Lastly, we evaluate large language models (LLMs) under a zero-shot setting and show that current LLMs tend to show higher accuracies on Anglosphere country labels in CREHate.Our dataset and codes are available at: https://github.com/nlee0212/CREHate

Paper 02:
Title: 
Dataset for Identification of Homophobia and Transophobia in Multilingual YouTube Comments

Abstract:
The increased proliferation of abusive content on social media platforms has a negative impact on online users. The dread, dislike, discomfort, or mistrust of lesbian, gay, transgender or bisexual persons is defined as homophobia/transphobia. Homophobic/transphobic speech is a type of offensive language that may be summarized as hate speech directed toward LGBT+ people, and it has been a growing concern in recent years. Online homophobia/transphobia is a severe societal problem that can make online platforms poisonous and unwelcome to LGBT+ people while also attempting to eliminate equality, diversity, and inclusion. We provide a new hierarchical taxonomy for online homophobia and transphobia, as well as an expert-labelled dataset that will allow homophobic/transphobic content to be automatically identified. We educated annotators and supplied them with comprehensive annotation rules because this is a sensitive issue, and we previously discovered that untrained crowdsourcing annotators struggle with diagnosing homophobia due to cultural and other prejudices. The dataset comprises 15,141 annotated multilingual comments. This paper describes the process of building the dataset, qualitative analysis of data, and inter-annotator agreement. In addition, we create baseline models for the dataset. To the best of our knowledge, our dataset is the first such dataset created. Warning: This paper contains explicit statements of homophobia, transphobia, stereotypes which may be distressing to some readers.

Paper 03:

Title: Misogynistic attitude detection in YouTube comments and replies: A high-quality dataset and algorithmic models

Abstract
Social media platforms are now not only a medium for expressing users views, feelings, emotions and sentiments but are also being abused by people to propagate unpleasant and hateful content. Consequently, research efforts have been made to develop techniques and models for automatically detecting and identifying hateful, abusive, vulgar, and offensive content on different platforms. Although significant progress has been made on the task, the research on design of methods to detect misogynistic attitude of people in non-English and code-mixed languages is not very well-developed. Non-availability of suitable datasets and resources is one main reason for this. Therefore, this paper attempts to bridge this research gap by presenting a high-quality curated dataset in the Hindi-English code-mixed language. The dataset includes 12,698 YouTube comments and replies, with each comment annotated under two-level categories, first as optimistic and pessimistic, and then into different types at second level based on the content. The inter-annotator agreement in the dataset is found to be 0.84 for the first subtask, and 0.79 for the second subtask, indicating the reasonably high quality of annotations. Different algorithmic models are explored for the task of automatic detection of the misogynistic attitude expressed in the comments, with the mBERT model giving best performance on both subtasks (reported macro average F1 scores of 0.59 and 0.52, and weighted average F1 scores of 0.66 and 0.65, respectively). The analysis and results suggest that the dataset can be used for further research on the topic and that the developed algorithmic models can be applied for automatic detection of misogynistic attitude in social media conversations and posts.

Paper 03:

Title: Handling Disagreement in Hate Speech Modelling

Abstract
Hate speech annotation for training machine learning models is an inherently ambiguous and subjective task. In this paper, we adopt a perspectivist approach to data annotation, model training and evaluation for hate speech classification. We first focus on the annotation process and argue that it drastically influences the final data quality. We then present three large hate speech datasets that incorporate annotator disagreement and use them to train and evaluate machine learning models. As the main point, we propose to evaluate machine learning models through the lens of disagreement by applying proper performance measures to evaluate both annotators’ agreement and models’ quality. We further argue that annotator agreement poses intrinsic limits to the performance achievable by models. When comparing models and annotators, we observed that they achieve consistent levels of agreement across datasets. We reflect upon our results and propose some methodological and ethical considerations that can stimulate the ongoing discussion on hate speech modelling and classification with disagreement.


Paper 04:

Title: The problem of varying annotations to identify abusive language in social media content

Abstract
With the increase of user-generated content on social media, the detection of abusive language has become crucial and is therefore reflected in several shared tasks that have been performed in recent years. The development of automatic detection systems is desirable, and the classification of abusive social media content can be solved with the help of machine learning. The basis for successful development of machine learning models is the availability of consistently labeled training data. But a diversity of terms and definitions of abusive language is a crucial barrier. In this work, we analyze a total of nine datasets—five English and four German datasets—designed for detecting abusive online content. We provide a detailed description of the datasets, that is, for which tasks the dataset was created, how the data were collected, and its annotation guidelines. Our analysis shows that there is no standard definition of abusive language, which often leads to inconsistent annotations. As a consequence, it is difficult to draw cross-domain conclusions, share datasets, or use models for other abusive social media language tasks. Furthermore, our manual inspection of a random sample of each dataset revealed controversial examples. We highlight challenges in data annotation by discussing those examples, and present common problems in the annotation process, such as contradictory annotations and missing context information. Finally, to complement our theoretical work, we conduct generalization experiments on three German datasets.

Paper 05:

Title: Sexism in Focus: An Annotated Dataset of YouTube Comments for Gender Bias Research

Abstract:
This paper presents a novel dataset of 200k YouTube comments from 468 videos across 109 channels in four content categories: Entertainment, Gaming, People & Blogs, and Science & Technology. We applied state-of-the-art NLP methods to augment the dataset with sexism-related features such as sentiment, toxicity, offensiveness, and hate speech. These features can assist manual content analyses and enable automated analysis of sexism in online platforms. Furthermore, we develop an annotation framework inspired by the Ambivalent Sexism Theory to promote a nuanced understanding of how comments relate to the gender of content creators. We release a small sample of comments annotated using this framework. Our dataset analysis confirms that female content creators receive more sexist and hateful comments than their male counterparts, underscoring the need for further research and intervention in addressing online sexism.


Paper 06:

Title: Quantifying the impact of context on the quality of manual hate speech annotation

Abstract
The quality of annotations in manually annotated hate speech datasets is crucial for automatic hate speech detection. This contribution focuses on the positive effects of manually annotating online comments for hate speech within the context in which the comments occur. We quantify the impact of context availability by meticulously designing an experiment: Two annotation rounds are performed, one in-context and one out-of-context, on the same English YouTube data (more than 10,000 comments), by using the same annotation schema and platform, the same highly trained annotators, and quantifying annotation quality through inter-annotator agreement. Our results show that the presence of context has a significant positive impact on the quality of the manual annotations. This positive impact is more noticeable among replies than among comments, although the former is harder to consistently annotate overall. Previous research reporting that out-of-context annotations favour assigning non-hate-speech labels is also corroborated, showing further that this tendency is especially present among comments inciting violence, a highly relevant category for hate speech research and society overall. We believe that this work will improve future annotation campaigns even beyond hate speech and motivate further research on the highly relevant questions of data annotation methodology in natural language processing, especially in the light of the current expansion of its scope of application.

Paper 07:

Title: When comments aren’t what they seem: The social media comment toxicity detector for understanding contextual comments

Abstract
Social media comments often contain toxic, sarcastic, or ambiguous language, challenging traditional toxicity detection models. However, most existing methods treat comments as isolated units and rely solely on surface-level textual cues, making them ineffective in identifying implicit toxicity such as sarcasm or context-dependent insults. These limitations hinder their performance in real-world scenarios, where toxicity often emerges across multi-turn interactions. This paper proposes a context-aware interactive framework using GPT models to simulate human-like interactions, transforming single comments into multi-level threads. This approach improves toxicity detection by leveraging contextual dialogue. We evaluate our method on 5018 comments from platforms such as Zhihu, Bilibili, Weibo, YouTube, and RedNote. Our experiments show that our method outperforms traditional models, especially on YouTube, where sensitive word frequency is high. Additionally, our approach demonstrates strong multilingual support, successfully detecting toxicity in six languages. This paper also compares the performance of GPT-4O, GPT-4, GPT-3.5 and DeepSeek-V3, highlighting the advantage of multimodal processing in the former for more robust detection. The dataset we have collected is publicly available at https://github.com/kanglzu/When-Comments-Aren-t-What-They-Seem.


Paper 08:

Title: A Multi-Task Benchmark for Abusive Language Detection in Low-Resource Settings

Abstract
Content moderation research has recently made significant advances, but remains limited in serving the majority of the world's languages due to the lack of resources, leaving millions of vulnerable users to online hostility. This work presents a large-scale human-annotated multi-task benchmark dataset for abusive language detection in Tigrinya social media with joint annotations for three tasks: abusiveness, sentiment, and topic classification. The dataset comprises 13,717 YouTube comments annotated by nine native speakers, collected from 7,373 videos with a total of over 1.2 billion views across 51 channels. We developed an iterative term clustering approach for effective data selection. Recognizing that around 64% of Tigrinya social media content uses Romanized transliterations rather than native Ge'ez script, our dataset accommodates both writing systems to reflect actual language use. We establish strong baselines across the tasks in the benchmark, while leaving significant challenges for future contributions. Our experiments demonstrate that small fine-tuned models outperform prompted frontier large language models (LLMs) in the low-resource setting, achieving 86.67% F1 in abusiveness detection (7+ points over best LLM), and maintain stronger performance in all other tasks. The benchmark is made public to promote research on online safety.

Paper 09:
Title: Detection of Offensive Language and ITS Severity for Low Resource Language

Abstract
Continuous proliferation of hate speech in different languages on social media has drawn significant attention from researchers in the past decade. Detecting hate speech is indispensable irrespective of the scale of use of language, as it inflicts huge harm on society. This work presents a first resource for classifying the severity of hate speech in addition to classifying offensive and hate speech content. Current research mostly limits hate speech classification to its primary categories, such as racism, sexism, and hatred of religions. However, hate speech targeted at different protected characteristics also manifests in different forms and intensities. It is important to understand varying severity levels of hate speech so that the most harmful cases of hate speech may be identified and dealt with earlier than the less harmful ones. In this work, we focus on detecting offensive speech, hate speech, and multiple levels of hate speech in the Urdu language. We investigate three primary target categories of hate speech: religion, racism, and national origin. We further divide these categories into levels based on the severity of hate conveyed. The severity levels are referred to as symbolization, insult, and attribution. A corpus comprising more than 20,000 tweets against the corresponding hate speech categories and severity levels is collected and annotated. A comprehensive experimentation scheme is applied using traditional as well as deep learning–based models to examine their impact on hate speech detection. The highest macro-averaged F-score yielded for detecting offensive speech is 86% while the highest F-scores for detecting hate speech with respect to ethnicity, national origin, and religious affiliation are 80%, 81%, and 72%, respectively. This shows that results are very encouraging and would provide a lead towards further investigation in this domain.

Paper 10:

Title: Tackling Sexist Hate Speech: Cross-Lingual Detection and Multilingual Insights from Social Media

Abstract
With the widespread use of social media, the proliferation of online communication presents both opportunities and challenges for fostering a respectful and inclusive digital environment. Due to the anonymity and weak regulations of social media platforms, the rise of hate speech has become a significant concern, particularly against specific individuals or groups based on race, religion, ethnicity, or gender, posing a severe threat to human rights. Sexist hate speech is a prevalent form of online hate that often manifests itself through gender-based violence and discrimination, challenging societal norms and legal systems. Despite the advances in natural language processing techniques for detecting offensive and sexist content, most research still focuses on monolingual (primarily English) contexts, neglecting the multilingual nature of online platforms. This gap highlights the need for effective and scalable strategies to address the linguistic diversity and cultural variations in hate speech. Cross-language transfer learning and state-of-the-art multilingual pre-trained language models provide potential solutions to improve the detection efficiency of low-resource languages by leveraging data from high-resource languages. Additional knowledge is crucial to facilitate the models’ performance in detecting culturally varying expressions of sexist hate speech in different languages. In this thesis, we delve into the complex area of identifying sexist hate speech in social media across diverse languages pertaining to different language families, with a focus on sexism and a broad exploration of datasets, methodologies, and barriers inherent in mitigating online hate speech in cross-lingual and multilingual scenarios. We primarily apply cross-lingual transfer learning techniques to detect sexist hate speech, aiming to leverage knowledge acquired from related linguistic data in order to improve performance in a target language. We also investigate the integration of external knowledge to deepen the understanding of sexism in multilingual social media contexts, addressing both the challenges of linguistic diversity and the need for comprehensive, culturally sensitive hate speech detection models. Specifically, it embarks on a comprehensive survey of tackling cross-lingual hate speech online, summarising existing datasets and cross-lingual approaches, as well as highlighting challenges and frontiers in this field. It then presents a first contribution to the field, the creation of the Sina Weibo Sexism Review (Swsr) dataset in Chinese —a pioneering resource that not only fills a crucial gap in limited resources but also lays the foundation for relevant cross-lingual investigations. Additionally, it examines how cross-lingual techniques can be utilised to generate domain-aware word embeddings, and explores the application of these embeddings in a cross-lingual hate speech framework, thereby enhancing the capacity to capture the subtleties of sexist hate speech across diverse languages. Recognising the significance of linguistic nuances in multilingual and cross-lingual settings, another innovation consists in proposing and evaluating a series of multilingual and cross-lingual models tailored for detecting sexist hate speech. By leveraging the capacity of shared knowledge and features across languages, these models significantly advance the state-of-the-art in identifying online sexist hate speech. As societies continue to deal with the complexities of social media, the findings and methodologies presented in this thesis could effectively help foster more inclusive and respectful online content across languages.
