
### ১. (Bangladesh OR Bangladeshi) AND (vessel OR boat OR launch OR trawler) AND (dataset OR detection OR classification)

**Boat-Based livelihoods and the realities of coastal fishing communities in Bangladesh**

**Abstract:** This research paper investigates the livelihood of fishermen, where boats are essential tools for their existence. This study aims to understand how a boat shapes the livelihood strategies of fishermen in coastal communities and the challenges they face. The study employs both quantitative and qualitative approaches. A total of 122 respondents were covered in the survey process, where 55.10% were boatmen and 34.69% were staff on the boat, and the rest were the stockiest and lenders, and 10 respondents participated in the in-depth interviews, and 2 case studies were conducted. Both the survey and in-depth interview processes covered a wide range of issues, including the livelihood of fishermen, fish production, resource access, and the existence of local communities (Samity). The study explores challenges threatening fishermen’s livelihoods, including economic difficulties, environmental changes, and social issues. Challenges such as limited access to resources, overfishing, climate change, and inconsistent government policies further threaten their livelihood. In addition to these challenges, the boat plays a crucial role in shaping their livelihood, highlighting the importance of boat dynamics, roles on the boat, and evolving strategies related to boat fishing. It also reveals that the use of technology brought an imperative where 92.51% relied on it, and they have the tendency to change their profession to improve their status (20.5%), drop out and change occupation (21.3%), and other justifiable causes. This study uncovers the deep connection between fishermen and their work, particularly the numerous challenges they face. These coastal communities are navigating shifting government policies and require better support and policies.

**Laser-based imaging approach for nocturnal vessel detection in rivers**

**Abstract:** In the twenty-first century, maritime routes are crucial for geographical and financial reasons in riverine countries. Compared to the available technology abroad, Bangladesh has insufficient monitoring of water vessels to tackle any possible disaster, such as vessel collisions for inland water transportation. One of the frequent outcomes of this architecture is regular capsizing, which sometimes leads to loss of lives. These accidents bear physical and economic costs, which are detrimental for a third-world country like Bangladesh. Considering this important issue, we attempted to develop an effective system to make river travel safe. In this study, our focus was on Bangladesh’s inland waterway transportation, particularly at night. We proposed a system with the help of laser technology that tracks both the host ship and its surrounding vessels and provides real-time tracking positions. Cameras are used to monitor the vessel’s movement. The diameter of the laser sphere is the primary source of data to work on for our proposed model, which is annotated using image processing. The control room will monitor data in the real-time setup, and data will be updated automatically. This proposal was presented through modeling and simulation based on laser detection and identification.

### ২. ("river transport" OR "inland water transport") AND (Bangladesh OR "South Asia")

**An Analysis of Inland Water Transportation in Bangladesh: Connectivity and Integration**

**Abstract:** Historically the development and economy of Bangladesh are highly dependent on the water transportation system. Data collected from Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority shows that Bangladesh has 24000km of waterway around the country. But only 5968km of this waterway is navigable in the monsoon and 3865km in the dry season. This paper analyzes two important factors of inland water water transportation system in Bangladesh. This paper firstly analyes the current connectivity scenario of inland water transportation system in Bangladesh by reviewing data from Bangladesh Inland Water Transportation Authority and Bangladesh Inland Water Transportation Corpration and Bangladesh Statistical Year Book-2020. In this paper integration is defined as a factor that identifies the intermodal connection of transport modes. Integration facilities of inland water transportation system is evaluated with respect to data collected from internet, local transport authorities. Integration of freight transportation via inland water transportation is evaluated with respect to EU countries as those countries now adopted intra modal freight transportation. Connectivity via inland transportation system is decreasing day by day as little improvmenet options are adopted throuhout the years. Another main factor which is identified by the paper there is no proper integration between water transportation modes and other modes. Finally, this paper will suggest some probable improvement options for sustainable development.

**Analyzing factors contributing to inland waterway transport accidents in Bangladesh**

**Abstract:** Inland Waterway Transport (IWT) is an essential mode of transportation for moving both cargo and passengers in riverine countries like Bangladesh. The country’s domestic freight movement and passenger transportation significantly depends on the IWT modes, utilizing its extensive river network to provide cost-effective and accessible transit options. Despite its significance, the sector faces recurring accidents, leading to considerable loss of life and property. This study investigates the factors influencing IWT accidents in Bangladesh. Through an extensive literature review 14 factors were identified and categorized into human, technical, and external factors. Applying the Friedman test, the research ranks 14 key factors through the survey among 146 IWT masters, drivers and sukanis (helmsman). Results indicate that overloading, machinery failure, and contact with permanent obstructions are the most influential factors across their respective categories. These findings highlight the urgent need for targeted interventions, such as stricter enforcement of safety regulations, enhanced equipment and navigational aids, and workforce training. This study provides actionable insights for policymakers and stakeholders to improve IWT safety while also calling for further research to encompass diverse geographical contexts and refine mitigation strategies.

**The challenges and prospects of inland waterway transportation system of Bangladesh**

**Abstract:** Bangladesh is crisscrossed by rivers and inland waterways have been playing a significant role to the transportation of goods. For nation's economic prospects it is very important to develop the inland waterways transportation systems in Bangladesh. But inland waterways in Bangladesh are facing challenges due to many problems in spite of having good prospects. Therefore, the objective of the study is to examine the present IWT systems, its challenges and how it can contribute more than others transportation systems to our national economy. this paper is mainly based on secondary data. The data is collected from journal papers, internet, newspaper, books, and articles. Data is also gathered from different maritime authority's website. The research findings indicate that the Bangladeshi inland waterways have huge prospects, but lack of knowledge gap of current condition of inland navigability, not conducting hydrographic survey after 1989, lack of poor management, inadequate inland port facilities, low quality vessel and poor inland connectivity are the reasons for all of this problem. Inland waterways transports are environmentally friendly than others transportation systems and many local business person, exporter, importer will be benefited by using IWT. But authority should have to utilize the inland water ways in a right manner. Adequate the depth and air draft should have to be maintained and the inland port facilities improvement and infrastructure development are necessary for IWT.

**Enhancing inland vessel efficiency: A comprehensive study on the effectiveness of bulbous bow in mitigating resistance in Bangladesh**

**Abstract:** This study investigated the impact of bulbous bows on resistance reduction and efficiency enhancement in inland vessels within Bangladesh's riverine networks. Filling a research gap, it focused on tankers, cargo, and passenger vessels, employing numerical modeling, computational fluid dynamics (CFD) simulations, and numerical validation. The literature review highlighted bulbous bows' historical effectiveness in reducing resistance, particularly in high-speed, compact, and specialized vessels. With no prevalent use in Bangladesh's inland ships, the study methodically added bulbous bows to three vessels, employing 'SHIPFLOW' CFD software for simulations. The Nabla bulb emerged as the most efficient design. The findings contribute to hydrodynamics and ship design knowledge, offering practical insights for Bangladesh's marine industry. The study's outcomes could reshape the inland water transport sector by providing valuable information on bulbous bows' economic, environmental, and strategic advantages.

### ৩. (Bangladesh) AND ("computer vision" OR "deep learning") AND (transport OR river OR waterway)

**Deep Learning Methods of Satellite Image Processing for Monitoring of Flood Dynamics in the Ganges Delta, Bangladesh**

**Abstract:** Mapping spatial data is essential for the monitoring of flooded areas, prognosis of hazards and prevention of flood risks. The Ganges River Delta, Bangladesh, is the world’s largest river delta and is prone to floods that impact social–natural systems through losses of lives and damage to infrastructure and landscapes. Millions of people living in this region are vulnerable to repetitive floods due to exposure, high susceptibility and low resilience. Cumulative effects of the monsoon climate, repetitive rainfall, tropical cyclones and the hydrogeologic setting of the Ganges River Delta increase probability of floods. While engineering methods of flood mitigation include practical solutions (technical construction of dams, bridges and hydraulic drains), regulation of traffic and land planning support systems, geoinformation methods rely on the modelling of remote sensing (RS) data to evaluate the dynamics of flood hazards. Geoinformation is indispensable for mapping catchments of flooded areas and visualization of affected regions in real-time flood monitoring, in addition to implementing and developing emergency plans and vulnerability assessment through warning systems supported by RS data. In this regard, this study used RS data to monitor the southern segment of the Ganges River Delta. Multispectral Landsat 8-9 OLI/TIRS satellite images were evaluated in flood (March) and post-flood (November) periods for analysis of flood extent and landscape changes. Deep Learning (DL) algorithms of GRASS GIS and modules of qualitative and quantitative analysis were used as advanced methods of satellite image processing. The results constitute a series of maps based on the classified images for the monitoring of floods in the Ganges River Delta.

**Sustainable flood risk assessment using deep learning-based algorithms with a blockchain technology**

**Abstract:** The couplings of convolutional neural networks (CNN) with random forest (RF), support vector machine (SVM), long short-term memory (LSTM), and extreme gradient boosting (XGBoost) ensemble algorithms were used to construct novel ensemble computational models (CNN-LSTM, CNN-XG, CNN-SVM, and CNN-RF) for flood hazard mapping in the monsoon-dominated catchment, Bangladesh. The results revealed that geology, elevation, the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI), and rainfall are the most significant parameters in flash floods based on the Pearson correlation technique. Statistical method such as the area under the curve (AUC) was used to evaluate model performance. The CNN-RF model could be a promising tool for precisely predicting and mapping flash floods as it is outperformed the other models (AUC = 1.0). Furthermore, to meet sustainable development goals (SDGs), a blockchain-based technology is proposed to create a decentralized flood management tool for help seekers and help providers during and post floods. The suggested tool accelerates emergency rescue operations during flood events.


**1. Governance of illegal, unreported, and unregulated (IUU) fishing in Bangladesh: status, challenges, and potentials**

**Abstract:** Illegal, unreported, and unregulated (IUU) fishing can result in loss of revenue, environmental damage, and economic loss for coastal communities, as well as a reduction in fish stocks. This study aims to generate comprehensive knowledge of the historical patterns and current status of IUU fishing in the coastal and marine waters of Bangladesh (BD). Secondary, qualitative, and quantitative data were gathered using SWOT as the conceptual framework. Cluster analysis was performed using NVivo for quantitative and qualitative data analysis. This study found that, because of the lack of appropriate and robust governmental laws, regulations, and manpower, IUU fishing in BD has led to the extinction of important fish species, biodiversity loss, and increased poverty among fishers. Potential solutions include raising the standard of living for underprivileged fishermen, improving the management and oversight of artisanal and industrial fishing, motivating and training stakeholders, and coordinating across all stakeholder levels. This study serves as a crucial guideline for sustainably managing fisheries and developing legislation, rules, and regulations to prevent IUU fishing in BD.

**2. Enhancing Maritime Surveillance in the Exclusive Economic Zone of Bangladesh**

**Abstract:** Bangladesh being a maritime nation is heavily dependent on the sea. It has a 710 km long coastline and about 90% of its trades are routed through seas. The huge sea area is enriched with vast potential for economic growth due to the presence of minerals, marine life, hydrocarbons etc. The depletion of limited land resources in Bangladesh suggests the need for the exploration of sea resources for the mere survival of the nation. Therefore, the protection of Sea Lines of Communication (SLOC), safe trade routes, resources, environmental protection, offshore installation and ensuring maritime security at the Bay of Bengal is of paramount importance for the country. On the other hand, the country’s interests are consistently threatened by asymmetric threats like piracy, smuggling, gun running, poaching etc., in the region. Ironically the present maritime surveillance system in Bangladesh suffers many limitations in essence and has much potential to be exploited. Therefore, sea area surveillance in Bangladesh needs serious attention. Against this backdrop, this research is designed to analyze the limitations of the present maritime surveillance system of Bangladesh to recommend viable options for effective maritime surveillance of its EEZ.

**3. Risk factors contributing to inland water transport passenger ferry accidents in Bangladesh**

**Abstract:** Bangladesh possesses the geographical traits to make a model inland water transport (IWT) system globally, unfortunately, it is prone to accidents and casualties. This study presents an outline of risk factors liable for the IWT passenger ferry accident in the southern route of Bangladesh that was not examined by the existing studies. The factors were grouped into five broad categories and independently assessed their risk level based on their risk score. Findings indicate that the heat-sensitive products and raw materials category contains the highest number of critical risk factors where warning facilities and safety exits concurrently scored the maximum risk value. Other critical risk factors include evacuation routes, siren systems, gas cylinders, kitchen rooms, fire detection systems, hospital facilities, berthing competition, critical bottleneck, political intervention, high crowds on the quay and unpublished accident reports. In the high-risk level, the passenger boarding competition scored the highest risk value. The spaces and stairs of the first-class area, the absence of first aid facilities, unnecessary horns at the quay, investigation committee members, no safety instructions by the crew and the fueling process are also at high-risk levels. The major medium-risk level factors were air conditioners, burnable lading, risky owner groups and loading/unloading checks by traffic officers. Factors such as ship documentation, river crossing spots, searchlight coverage and uncertain water level conditions were underscored in low-risk levels. Furthermore, an accident hotspot was identified in the Meghna River near Horina (Chandpur district) where the traffic is high and many rivers intersect. The rescue/reconstruction event of the IWT accident in Bangladesh was also scrutinized. The accident of the IWT passenger ferry is a complex interactivity among these natural and human factors. Reducing or eliminating these factors in IWT can contribute to a more sustainable transport system for Bangladesh.

**4. Adaptive Multiscale Reversible Column Network for SAR Ship Detection**

**Abstract:** Ship detection via synthetic aperture radar (SAR) is widely used in maritime safety and maritime traffic control, etc. Recently, deep learning methods are employed to improve the performance of SAR ship detection to a large extent. However, the presence of clutter in SAR images and the large-scale difference of ships result in the diminished detection performance in complex environments. As such, in this article, a novel adaptive multiscale reversible column network is proposed. First, the idea of disentangled feature learning is applied to construct reversible column networks with a C2f module to alleviate the problem of large-scale differences and the loss of ship information. Second, the multiplexed adaptive spatial pyramid pooling module is proposed to alleviate the impact of complex background clutter through multiplexed pooling operations and adaptive fusion. Finally, a novel feature pyramid network with an adaptive downsampling module is designed to reduce the information loss caused by downsampling while enhancing the multiscale ship detection capability. The effectiveness of the proposed method is validated on two public datasets: 1) SAR ship detection dataset and 2) high-resolution SAR images dataset. The experimental results show that the proposed method is able to achieve better results than current state-of-the-art methods for SAR ship detection in complex environments and large-scale differences of ships.

**5. Surveillance in Maritime Scenario Using Deep Learning and Swarm Intelligence**

**Abstract:** Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) have played a crucial role in supporting Search and Rescue (SAR) Operations due to their fast movement capabilities and flexibility. During a search and rescue operation scenario, the time constraint is a crucial parameter, so the required time to detect humans in distress with precision is also a vital part. Modern Deep learning algorithms like CNN also aid in these missions. However, most models and datasets available focus on search and rescue missions on the ground or land. UAV-based search and rescue operations in the Maritime Scenario remain a challenge. This study focused on using deep learning algorithms such as CNN to precisely detect a human in peril with a swarm of drones. At the same time, we emphasize using swarm intelligence algorithms such as Particle Swarm Algorithm (PSO) to effectively find a victim in the shortest time by exploring a massive area. The distinctiveness of this system is that it combines the model with the best accuracy to detect and the best swarm intelligence algorithm for finding targets in the quickest time possible, thus enhancing the surveillance mission. In this research, among VGG16, ResNet50V2, InceptionV3, Xception, and MobileNetV2 models, VGG16 produced an IoU (Intersection over Union) score of 0.62 with a Class Label accuracy of 99.15% and Bounding Box accuracy of 88.74% in CNN part. Along with that, among three different swarm intelligence algorithms, according to the simulation, Particle Swarm Optimization Algorithm took the minimum average time, which is 20.4 units, whereas the Grey Wolf Optimization algorithm and Bat Optimization Algorithm, respectively, took 65.6 and 73.8 units of time.

**6. A Spatio-Temporal Track Association Algorithm Based on Marine Vessel Automatic Identification System Data**

**Abstract:** Tracking multiple moving objects in real-time in a dynamic threat environment is an important element in national security and surveillance system. It helps pinpoint and distinguish potential candidates posing threats from other normal objects and monitor the anomalous trajectories until intervention. To locate the anomalous pattern of movements, one needs to have an accurate data association algorithm that can associate the sequential observations of locations and motion with the underlying moving objects, and therefore, build the trajectories of the objects as the objects are moving. In this work, we develop a spatio-temporal approach for tracking maritime vessels as the vessel’s location and motion observations are collected by an Automatic Identification System. The proposed approach is developed as an effort to address a data association challenge in which the number of vessels as well as the vessel identification are purposely withheld and time gaps are created in the datasets to mimic the real-life operational complexities under a threat environment. Three training datasets and five test sets are provided in the challenge and a set of quantitative performance metrics is devised by the data challenge organizer for evaluating and comparing resulting methods developed by participants. When our proposed track association algorithm is applied to the five test sets, the algorithm scores a very competitive performance.

**7. Leveraging UAV Data and Deep Learning Models for Detecting Waste in Rivers**

**Abstract:** The growing problem of riverine waste pollution threatens water sustainability in Nepal, which is driven largely by rapid urban development and inadequate waste management. This study presents the first comparative evaluation of object detection and segmentation models for automated waste detection using novel UAV-captured imagery datasets. We introduce four datasets, two for object detection and two for segmentation in the Bishnumati and Bagmati rivers. We evaluated three training strategies—training from scratch, full-model fine-tuning, and fine-tuning with frozen layers—and assessed model generalizability through cross-river transfer learning. The study showed that fine-tuning pretrained weights is a better approach for training segmentation models, whereas freezing pretrained backbone layers is better for object detection. DeepLabv3+, trained by fine-tuning pretrained models, performed better than object detection models for waste detection, with precision and recall scores of 0.915 and 0.934 for Bagmati, and 0.913 and 0.939 for Bishnumati. Furthermore, transfer learning across locations improves object detection mAP scores and refines segmentation mask predictions, thereby uncovering previously undetected waste items. The transfer learning fine-tuned DeepLabv3+ model obtained an mIoU score of 0.849 for Bagmati to Bishnumati and 0.841 for Bishnumati to Bagmati transfer learning. Our novel datasets and methodological blueprint for optimizing deep learning training strategies in riverine environments offer a scalable and adaptable pipeline for automated waste monitoring in riverine environments, particularly for regions with limited surveying infrastructure and geographically proximate rivers where transfer learning can be effectively applied.

**8. Attention-enhanced and integrated deep learning approach for fishing vessel classification based on multiple features**

**Abstract:** Effective fisheries management is the key to achieve sustainable fisheries globally, while accurate monitoring of fishing vessels is essential to improve the effectiveness of management measures. Self-reported information on vessel types is often limited and may not cover all operating fishing vessels, causing incomplete monitoring in fisheries management. Therefore, a novel way to objectively identify the types of a large quantity of fishing vessels is needed. In this study, we presented an innovative integrated deep learning model by using automatic identification system (AIS) data to classify five types of fishing vessels, including gillnetter, hook and liner, trawler, fish carrier, and stow net vessel, further improving the performance of fishing vessel classification. First, we preprocessed data by removing erroneous information, dividing the vessel trajectories by day to obtain a complete and reliable dataset. Then, a multidimensional feature vector was constructed by combining the geometric, static and dynamic characteristics of fishing vessels to explain the behavioral differences of various types of fishing vessels more effectively. Finally, the feature vector was fed into an ensemble model of a two-dimensional bidirectional long short-term memory network and a convolutional neural network with an attention mechanism for training, and the prediction results were obtained through a fully connected layer. The accuracy of the ensemble model was 91.90%, which was higher than other single classifiers. The experimental results demonstrated that this method obtained remarkable performance and could be adopted to improve the precision of fishing vessel classification based on AIS data.
